What is stored program concept
Show IEEE 754 Standards for Binary Floating-Point Representation for 32 bit single  format and 64 bit double format.
What are applications of Microprogramming? 
What is Virtual Memory? 
Explain in bfief function of 8089 I/O Processor.
Name the Flynn's Classification of Parallel Processing Systems.  
Dralyirt e flow chart for Booth's Algorithm for Twos Complement Multiplication
Explain with diagram functioning of Tvlicroprogrammed Control Unit
What are the differences between RISC and CISC processors?
Describe hardwired control unit and specify its advantages.
What are characteristics of memory devices'
Explain in details Memory Hierarchy with examples.
What are elements of cache design? Explain in details.
What are major requirements f:Pr an I/O module?
Explain the DINvetA based ciata transfer techniques for I/O devices. 
 Explain concepts of nanoprogramming.  
What is instruction pipelining? 
Touch Pad
  Programmed I/O
What are the types of pipeline hazards ?
 Explain in brief memory mapped I/O.
Explain in detail cache coherence.
Draw flow chart of Booth's algorithm.
Define stored program concept and draw Von Neumann's Architecture.
 Explain in detail different types of addressing modes. 
Multiply ( — 2)10 and (— 5)10 using Booth's Algorithm
 Explain Wilke's Engine (Hardwired Control Unit) in detail.
Explain virtual memory with reference to memocy hierarchy, seg"
Explain features of RISC and CISC processors.
Explain six stage instruction pipeline with suitable diagram. 
 Explain various high speed meffica-ies such as interleaved memories and caches.
Explain LRU page replacement policy with suitable example.
What is Bus Arbitration ? Explain any two techniques of Bus Arbitration.
Nano progamming
DMA (Direct Memory Access)
Plotter.
What are applications of Microprogramming? 
What is stored program concept in digital computer? 
List the Flynn's Classification of Parallel Processing Systems. 
Draw flowchart for Booth's Algorithm for Twos Complement Multiplication.  
What is Associative memory?  
Explain in brief Programmed VO.   
Explain with diagram functioning of Hardwired Control Unit.
Using Unsigned Binary Division method, divide 7 by 3.   "
Explain IEEE 754 standards for Floating Point number repreferitation. 
Describe what are the features of cache design?  
What are the differences between RISC and CISC proL:essors?   
Explain concepts of Nano programming
What are major requirements for an I/O morale?     
Explain in details Virtual Memory, SegmA ntation and Paging. "
Explain in details Cache Coherency.                                                                            
What is instruction pipelining? v‘artiat are advantages of pipelining?
Explain DMA based data transfcr technique for I/O devices.    
Explain Microinstruction sequencing and execution.                                                                
Pipeline Hazards. 
"Scanner,"
Interrupt driven I/O."
"Explain role of different registers-like IR, PC,513,AC,MAR and MDR used in VIITE Neumann "
Differentiate between Computer Organization and Computer Archlt 
List different memory organization characteristics
What-is virtual memory? 
Show IEEE 754 standards for Binary Floating Point Representation for 32 bit single format and 
Draw the flow chart for Booth's Algorithm for-cos complement multiplication.
Using Booth's algorithm show the multkili4tion of -3.* •7
What are differences between RISC aizOSC processor'?  
Describe hardwire control unit anctWeilfy its advantages. 
Explain six stage Instruction     
Calculate the hit and mir.r\sing various page replacement polleieiLRU,OPT,FIFO for "
 Calculate the hit and mir.r\sing various page replacement polleieiLRU,OPT,FIFO for "
ompare irtrupt driven I/O and DMA 
el 4n set associative and associative cache mapping techniques 
kWhat is bus arbitration? Explain any two techniques of bus arbitration.  
Explain various pipeline hazards.
"Express (35.25),0 in the IEEE single precision standard of floating point "
 Explain in brief the function of 8089 1/0 processor
Compare RISC and CISC processors.
Differentiate between Computer Architecture and Computer organization. 
Explain Flynn's classification in detail.   
Explain the Interleaved memory,"
Calculate number of page faults and page hits for the page replacement policies  
What is the need of DMA? Explain its various techniques of data transfer.   
What is Bus arbitration? Explain its tec-hniques .
Describe the register organization within the CPU. 
What are the features of cache memory design? 
Booth's algorithm.                                                        
Joysticks
The characteristics of memory
Microinstruclions to execute an instruction IVIONI [R1], R2."
Explain Von Neumann architecture in detail.
Explain various pipeline hazards with example.
Di fleruntiate between Computer Organization  
Explain Flynn's Classification.
What are the differences between RISC an 
Convert (127.125)10 in IEEE-754 single and double precsion floating point 10 
Explain micro instruction sequencing -auftexecution.   
"Calculate the hit and miss using various page replacement policies t.Hti, 10 "
Explain the importance of multiple bus hierarchies with the help of suitable 10 
Describe Hardwired Control Unit and specify its advantages.
Describe the characteristics of Memory. 
based data transfer technique for I/O devices.   
by using Booth's algorithm of Multiplication.
Cache Coherency 
Suanner
Interrupt driven I/O 
Explain Virtual Memory.
What is 10 buffering
Write a note on scanner.
What is Segmentation?
What is TLB?
Dray k the flow chart for Restore Division Algorithm.
Divide using restore division method 7/3.  
escribe hard-wire control unit and specify its advantages.  
Multiply (-5) and (2) using Booth's Algorithm.
A block set associative cache consists of (4 blocks divided in 4 block sets. The main memory
1-1owmanIttbits are there in main memory address?
ow many bits are there in cache memory address 
Differentiate between I. RISC and CISC processor.
Explain Flynn's-classification.   
Discuss the functions of 8089 1/0 processor. 
ShoWIEEE 754 Sfandards for Binary Floating Point Representation for 32 bit single format and 64 10 
Explain different pipelining hazards.
Discuss the functions of 8-049-1,40--es'sor INAA "
List different memory organization characteristics.
What is 10 buffering?
In floating pciint representation how to identify sign of exponeutl
 What is virtual memory?
What is TLB?
Draw the flow chart for Booth's Algorithm for two's complement multiplication. 
Using Booth's algorithm Multiply 14 times -5.
 Describe hard-wire control unit and specify its advantages.
Compare interrupt driven 110 and DMA  
Calculate the hit and miss using various page replacement policies LRU, OPT, FIFO for following 10 "
xplain set associative and associative cache mapping techniques 
Explain Flynn's classification  
Explain six stage instruction pipeline-with suitable diagram. 
Differentiate between I. RISC and CISC II. SRAM and DRAM  
Explain different pipe lining hazards   
Explain in brief cache coherency problem
Write a note on scanner.
What are the functions of following registers? 
What are the functions of following registers? i) IR ii) SP iii) MAR IV) MDR V) PC
Compare SRAM & DRAM?
" What the help of diagram, explain Von-Neumann's"
What are the major requirements of I/O module? 7.t.
Divide 7 by 3 using non-restoring division algorithms.
Explain various pipeline hazards with example.
Multiply (-5) and (2) using Booth's Algorithm.
"Consider the string 9,8,2,3,2,9,5,9,8,2,6,7,5,3,8,2,3,2,8 Find the page faults for 3 frames using FIF0,10 OPT, & LRU page replacement policies."
Explain various cache mapping functions.
Draw and explain instruction cycle with interrupt execution. 
Discuss the functions of 8089 I/O processor.   
Explain th1,-Menwry hierarchy.     "
Describe the register organization within the CPU. 
What is bus arbitration? Explain its techniques. 
What is TLB? Explain its working.                              
Write a note on scanner
Draw and explain the flowchart of Add & shift method of integer multiplication
Briefly explain Flynn's classification
"With the help of diagram, explain Von- Neumann's architecture"
What are the major functions of 110 module?
Divide 6 by 2 using restoring division algorithms   
Discuss various pipline hazards with example  
Multiply (-2) and ( 2) using Booth's Algorithm.
"Consider the string 9,4,2,3,2,9,5,9,4,2,6,7,5,3,4,2,3,2,4,Find the page faults for 3 frames using FIFO, Optimal & LRU page replacement policies"
Explain various cache mapping function  
Draw and explain instruction cycle with interrupt execution                 10
Explain the various characteristics of memory  
Describe-the register organization within the CPU 
What is bus arbitration? Explain its techniques     
Whatis the need of DMA? Explain its various techniques of data transfer
"Convert the following number 256.325 into IEEE 32 bit Single Precision Format and IEEE 64 bit Double recision Format ,"
Discuss difference between RISC and CISC processors:
Explain function of 8089 I/O processor in brief.
Differentiate between SRAM and DRAM 
 Explain cache consistency and coherency with suitable examples. Also, give methods to maintain cache consistency."
Explain DMA based data transfer techniques.
Explain how Virtual Address is translated to Physical address with suitable 
Compare between Cache Look Aside Architecture and Cache Look through Architecture 
Explain the Bus Arbitration Techniques  
Explain hardwired Control Unit with help of neat diagram. Compare it with        microprogrammed control unit.
What is TLB? Explain working of TLB.       
Describe register organization within CPU
Hazards in Pipelining    
Interrupt driven I/O  
Interleaved memory 
Modes of DMA  
Design an arithmetic circuit with one selection variable'S' and two n-bit data inputs A and B. The circuit generates the following four arithmetic operat ions in conjunction with the input carry C in Draw the logic
What are registe rs? Mention va ri ous types of Registers and explain any two .
Explain the principle of pipelining with the help of space time diagram. Derive an expression for speedup.
What is the difference between logical, circular and arithmetic shift ? Starting fro m an initial value of R = 110 111 0 1, determine the sequence of binary values in R after a logical shift-left, followed by a circular shift-right, fol lowed by a logical shift-right and circular shift-left.
Explain with the help of flo w diagram how an instruction is fetched, decoded and executed ?
Register A holds the 8-bit binary 11111001 . Determine operand B and the logic micro operation to performed in order to change the value in A to :
Draw and expl ain the instruction cycle and the control functions associated with each of the phases. Show the execut e phase for any one memory referenceinstruction.
What are the various techniques for data transformation from main memorv to Cache memory? 
What is cache coherence problem in microprocessorsystem? How can it be so lved? Explain in detail
What are buses? Discuss bus arbitration scheme ?
What is an interrupt ? Explain the difference between types of interrupts in dctail.
What is cache coherence problem in microprocessor system? How can it be so lved? Explain in detail .
Explain flow chart of Booth's mul tiplication • algorithm in detai 1. A I so compute 7X(-8) us1 ng Booth' s Algo .
Describe one address, two address instruction format with the help of examples. Discuss register direct, register ind irect and index edaddressing modes al ong with their merits & demerits ?
Differentiate between following :- RISC and CISC Tightly coupled and loosely coupled multiprocessor.
Define addressing modes? Explain various type of addressing modes in details? (1 O)
Show complete logic of interrupt flip-fl_op 'R' in basic computer system? Use JK-flip flop and minimize the number of gates?
Show the step-by-step multiplication process using Booth algorithm, when the following binary numbersare multiplied. Assume 5-bit registers that hold signednumbers.
Explain working of four segment instruction pipeline with suitable flow chart?
A non-pipeline system takes 50 ns to process a task. The same task can be processed in a six-segment pipeline w~th a clock cycle of 10 ns. Determine the speedup ratio of the pipeline for 100 tasks. What is the maximum speedup that can be achieved?
Discuss mapping process 1n contrast with memory management? Also explain each type of mapping process with suitable diagram?
Draw a space-time diagram for a six segment pipeline showing the time it takes to process eight tasks?
How many lines must be decoded for chip select? Specify the size of decoders?
How many lines of the address bus must be used to access 2048 bytes of memory? How many of these lines will be common to all chips?
(a) What are the types of pipeline hazards ? (b) Explain in brief memory mapped I/O. (c) Explain in detail cache coherence. (d) Draw flow chart of Booth's algorithm. 
(e) Define stored program concept and draw Von Neumann's Architecture. 
2. (a) Explain in detail different types of addressing modes_ (b) Multiply ( — 2)io and (— 5)10 using Booth's Algorithm. 
3. (a) Explain Wilke's Engine (Hardwired Control Utit) in detail. (b) Explain virtual memory with reference to memory hierarchy, segments and pages. 
4. (a) Explain features of RISC and CISC processors. 
(b) Explain six stage instruction pipeline with suitable diagram. 
5. (a) Explain various high speed memories such as interleaved memories and caches. (b) Explain LRU page replacement policy with suitable example. 
(a) What is Bus Arbitration ? Explain any two techniques of Bus Arbitration. 
Nano Programming
DMA 
Plotter
(a) What are applications of Microprogramming? 
(b) What is stored program concept in digital computer? 
(c) List the Flynn's Classification of Parallel Processing Systems. 
(d) Draw flowchart for Booth's Algorithm for Twos Complement Multiplication. 
(e) What is Associative memory? 
(f) Explain in brief Programmed I/O. 
(a) Explain with diagram functioning of Hardwired Control Unit. 
(b) Using Unsigned Binary Division method, divide 7 by 3. 
(c) Explain IEEE 754 standards for Floating Point number representation. 
(a) Describe what are the features of cache design? 
(b) What are the differences between RISC and CISC processors? 
(c) Explain concepts of Nano programming. 
(a) What are major requirements for an I/O moriule? 
(b) Explain in details Virtual Memory, SegmP ntation and Paging. 
(c) Explain in details Cache Coherency. 
(a) What is instruction pipelining? 
(b) Explain DMA based data trarnsfer technique for I/O devices. 
(c) Explain Microinstruction..esiuencing and execution. 
Write short note on: 
(a) Pipeline Hazards. 
(b) Scanner. 
c) Interrupt driven I/O. 




